Combining numerous fields of expertise regarding the mind, and coming up with a new novel tool or process or technique to help severe PTSD sufferers.

Abstract:
We still don't really know how the mind and brain works. Therefore, Psychology is a field that still has a lot to uncover. It is this paper's objective to outline plausible new paths towards helping people with PTSD. By delving into the already established understanding of how the brain works, and with cross-disciplinary fields like behavoral science, while also exploring other forms of reshaping the mind from all sorts of topics and proposals, there could be some significant breakthroughs into intellectual tools to help people cope with PTSD on a daily basis. A lot of intellectual philosophy could be of benefit too, with some philosophical ways of thinking potentially being perfect complementary concepts to helping people with PTSD. This paper will devise a novel tool or process or technique that psychologists can walk a client through and because of the tool or process or technique, people with severe PTSD can come out of the session with more ability to cope. The tool or process or technique should also be able to be used in a simple form at home for the client to be able to help themselves when they feel an attack of PTSD coming on, in order to alleviate the severe effects and be able to cope much more effectively. We will outline what the core aspects of PTSD are, why they are problematic, before delving into the meat of this topic. We will briefly describe the novel tool or process or technique, and then list out why this new tool or process or technique should work well for most sufferers, looking into the methodology of where all the novel elements come from and how they are analogous to dealing with PTSD. It will explain what is combined and how in order to take all those valuable insights and combine them into a totally new and novel way to help PTSD sufferers.  We will look into the steps needed to go through this tool or process or technique, and what each step is for, what each step does, and why each step works. It will also end on a hypothesis about the potential outcomes from this tool or process or technique.